# RentScout: Calvin Student's Best Guide to Off-Campus Housing

Many Calvin students are rapidly approaching the stressful time when they must declare where they will live the following year when the standard dorms are no longer the default option. When students settle for the first rental they come across because they're overwhelmed at the task of comparing options, landlords are stuck making their property discoverable at all rather than ensuring they provide the best value for students. In response to this problem, we present *RentScout*. Our app is designed for Calvin University students and is intended to streamline the process of finding housing off-campus. This app will foster beneficial competition among landlords by allowing renters to filter properties by metrics such as distance from campus, price point, location rating, and landlord rating. While some of these metrics are objective and easily compilable, we are most excited about the landlord and property rating systems. These features will incentivize landlords to treat current tenants well and allow future renters to be better informed about the rental situation that they might contract into, similar to how the renter referral system incentivizes renters to maintain properties and protects owners from excess hassle and harm.

While there are apps like *Zillow*, *Trulia Rentals*, or *Realtor.com* on the market, they primarily focus on longer-term rentals, apartments, or are simply overwhelming for young adults who are new to house hunting. From our research, no app is focused on the college student market directly. *RentScout* aims to fill this gap by providing tailored access for students, offering  a simplified and user-friendly rental search experience. This focused approach not only benefits students but also supports landlords by enhancing their visibility and ratings, and fostering positive relationships with renters, ultimately leading to a more rewarding rental experience for all parties involved.


*Annika Paivarinta*, *Alex Prasser*, *Jonathan Lundberg*, *Lucas Postuma*, *Theo Perumal*